Azure virtual machine 

With Azure Virtual Machines, you can create and use VMs in the cloud. VMs provide infrastructure as a service (IaaS) in the form of a virtualized server and can be used in many ways. Just like a physical computer, you can customize all of the software running on the VM. VMs are an ideal choice when you need:

Total control over the operating system (OS).
The ability to run custom software.
To use custom hosting configurations.

What is Azure Batch?

Azure Batch enables large-scale parallel and high-performance computing (HPC) batch jobs with the ability to scale to tens, hundreds, or thousands of VMs.

When you're ready to run a job, Batch does the following:

    Starts a pool of compute VMs for you.
    Installs applications and staging data.
    Runs jobs with as many tasks as you have.
    Identifies failures.
    Requeues work.
    Scales down the pool as work completes.

There might be situations in which you need raw computing power or supercomputer-level compute power. Azure provides these capabilities.

App Service 

App Service enables you to build and host web apps, background jobs, mobile back-ends, and RESTful APIs in the programming language of your choice without managing infrastructure. It offers automatic scaling and high availability. App Service supports Windows and Linux and enables automated deployments from GitHub, Azure DevOps, or any Git repo to support a continuous deployment model.

Azure Container Instances or Azure Kubernetes Service

Vitualization : virtualizes the hardware
container : virtualized the O.S software

Manage containers
Containers are managed through a container orchestrator, which can start, stop, and scale out application instances as needed. There are two ways to manage both Docker and Microsoft-based containers in Azure: Azure Container Instances and Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).

Azure Container Instances

Azure Container Instances offers the fastest and simplest way to run a container in Azure without having to manage any virtual machines or adopt any additional services. It's a platform as a service (PaaS) offering that allows you to upload your containers, which it runs for you.


Azure Kubernetes Service

The task of automating, managing, and interacting with a large number of containers is known as orchestration. Azure Kubernetes Service is a complete orchestration service for containers with distributed architectures and large volumes of containers.


Azure Functions

Serverless computing is the abstraction of servers, infrastructure, and operating systems. With serverless computing, Azure takes care of managing the server infrastructure and the allocation and deallocation of resources based on demand. Infrastructure isn't your responsibility. Scaling and performance are handled automatically. You're billed only for the exact resources you use. There's no need to even reserve capacity.

Event-driven scale: Serverless computing is an excellent fit for workloads that respond to incoming events. Events include triggers by:

Timers, for example, if a function needs to run every day at 10:00 AM UTC.
HTTP, for example, API and webhook scenarios.
Queues, for example, with order processing.
And much more.
Instead of writing an entire application, the developer authors a function, which contains both code and metadata about its triggers and bindings.

Micro-billing: Traditional computing bills for a block of time like paying a monthly or annual rate for website hosting. This method of billing is convenient but isn't always cost effective. Even if a customer's website gets only one hit a day, they still pay for a full day's worth of availability. With serverless computing, they pay only for the time their code runs. If no active function executions occur, they're not charged. For example, if the code runs once a day for two minutes, they're charged for one execution and two minutes of computing time.

Azure has two implementations of serverless compute:

Azure Functions: Functions can execute code in almost any modern language.
Azure Logic Apps: Logic apps are designed in a web-based designer and can execute logic triggered by Azure services without writing any code.

Azure Functions 

Functions can be either stateless or stateful. When they're stateless (the default), they behave as if they're restarted every time they respond to an event. When they're stateful (called Durable Functions), a context is passed through the function to track prior activity.

Azure Logic Apps
Logic apps are similar to functions. Both enable you to trigger logic based on an event. Where functions execute code, logic apps execute workflows that are designed to automate business scenarios and are built from predefined logic blocks.

Azure Virtual Desktop

* Networking 

What is Azure virtual networking?
Azure virtual networks enable Azure resources, such as VMs, web apps, and databases, to communicate with each other, with users on the internet, and with your on-premises client computers. You can think of an Azure network as a set of resources that links other Azure resources.

Azure virtual networks provide the following key networking capabilities:

Isolation and segmentation
Internet communications
Communicate between Azure resources
Communicate with on-premises resources
Route network traffic
Filter network traffic
Connect virtual networks

Communicate between Azure resources

Virtual networks
Service endpoints

Communicate with on-premises resources

Point-to-site virtual private networks
Site-to-site virtual private networks
Azure ExpressRoute

Route network traffic

Route tables
Border Gateway Protocol

Filter network traffic

Network security groups
Network virtual appliances

Connect virtual networks

You can link virtual networks together by using virtual network peering. Peering enables resources in each virtual network to communicate with each other. These virtual networks can be in separate regions, which allows you to create a global interconnected network through Azure.

UDR is user-defined Routing. UDR is a significant update to Azure’s Virtual Networks as this allows network admins to control the routing tables between subnets within a VNet, as well as between VNets, thereby allowing for greater control over network traffic flow.





